   Abstract
    I have created an in-lecture online questioning software that is based upon the social media format, twitter. Twitter allows the instant messaging of 140 characters by the account holder. The tweet can be directed to the attention of a particular account with the use of an @address. The software I developed allows questions to be posed to a large lecture audience and for the answers to be tweeted live during the lecture. The software analyses the incoming tweets to an account and displays just the tweets that have been sent by the students to that question. The software allows for an assertive questioning method to be used with a large student audience. The software was successfully used on a number  of occasions with the developing quality software module of the Computer Science degree at the University of Cardiff
    Introduction
    The role of questioning in developing true understanding has long been recognised. The Socratic method was predicated not on the knowledge of the teacher but on their ability to examine their students' beliefs (Ausubel 1968);one hundred years ago Dewey singled out questioning as core to his "Democratic classroom" (Dewey 1916 (1985)). Today Petty, in his book Evidence Based Teaching (Petty 2009) highlights that the ability to effectively use in-lesson questioning is one of the main indicators of good teaching practice. For the student, questioning helps them check their understanding during the lesson. Questioning also helps with student motivation, as correctly answering questions is an indicator of success and thus builds confidence (Petty 2014). Questioning also helps the student to be an active learner, utilises higher level thinking skills and helps make learning transferable (Petty 2014). For the lecturer, including questioning throughout will identify students' prior knowledge and thus help uncover any incorrect assumptions held by any of the students. Questions placed at strategic points in the lecture will also help with judging the pace of the lecture. This contributes to the "self correcting classroom" (Rowley 1997). Questioning is central to most educational theory. Constructivism states that learning can only occur by students constructing meaning out of new knowledge by connecting it to prior learning (Fontana 1995). The lecturer can only be sure that this occurs by evaluation during the lecture. Questioning, in the form of recall is also core to the transfer of knowledge from short term memory to long term memory(Petty 2014).All of Bloom's 6 taxa require questioning to evaluate their completion. However the higher levels of application, analysis, synthesis and evaluation have questioning at their core(Bloom 1956). Of Gagné's Nine steps of instruction,stimulate recall of prior learning,Provide feedback, and assess performance, all require questioning. it is also important in a number of LLUK diktats   "[Questioning is part of a ] range of effective and appropriate teaching and learning techniques to engage and motivate learners and encourage independence"BP2.2 also BP3.2 "Use listening and questioning techniques appropriately and effectively in a range of learning contexts"

    Petty(2014) points out that the most effective type of questioning is assertive questioning. Here questions are posed to groups of students, they are asked to discuss the question and give a group answer. The lecturer can then ask members of the group for their reasoning. The advantage of this method is that all students participate and allows lecturer and student feedback. He also notes that the most effective questions are open questions. For example "What are the advantages of Python as a programming language" The drawback of both assertive questioning and the use of open questions s that they are very difficult to accomplish in a large lecture setting. My teaching practice for the Computer Science degree at School of Computing at Cardiff university.The lectures in Developing quality software are delivered to approximately 120 students. The lecture theatre where the lectures are delivered is unusually narrow in width and long in depth. This precludes traditional group questioning activities such as snow balling (it would take an age to get things passed down from the back to the front) and students coming down to write things on the board. Verbal answering a questions is also difficult as students either at the back or the front of the lecture theatre can not hear comments or question by either.
    As this is a computer science degree, it can be guaranteed that all students have access to either a laptop, a tablet or a smart phone. In her book "Using social media in the classroom", Megan Poore suggests that the social media  platform twitter could be used to "Ask students to tweet their thoughts, questions, observations [...] during the class." (Poore 2012).Twitter allows the instant messaging of 140 characters by the account holder. The tweet can be directed to the attention of a particular account with the use of an @address. Twitter is normally accessed via the twitter web page (Twitter), or a tablet/phone app. The interface is not conducive to lecture use, the message space is too small and will show all tweets rather that just those that are concerned with class questions. Twitter does however make its application-programming interface API public(Twitter developer page). One of the most efficient ways to access it is with the Python programming language. Python is an interpreted language with a high level of customisation with libraries (Munroe 2015). The library that interfaces with the twitter API is Tweepy(Tweepy). Integration with Twitter requires registration of an application and obtaining the correct security keys (Gupta 2015).
    Method
    I created a standalone Twitter application that runs under ubuntu linux. The application is written for the graphics user interface Tk.  The code should work with other platforms, but will require the downloading of the correct Python libraries. The application will read a question from a text file and display the question at the head of the window in bold. Students then work in groups to answer the question and then tweet the answer to a dedicated Twitter account that I set up for the module, dqscolasanti. The program looks for tweets that are sent to this account and only retrieves those tweets that have been sent after the program had started. The tweets and the name of the account that sent them are then displayed. At the end of the session the received tweets can be saved to a text file.
    Program usage
    An earlier version of the program was used in a number of my lectures. The method was very successful at getting answers from a large number of groups (approximately 20 groups per class). The students were engaged with the method. The answers to each group could be easily identified, viewed and commented on. This was the major advantage to using the standard twitter page where this was much more difficult because of the layout. There is an approximate 30 second time gap between a tweet being sent and my program registering it. While this was not a problem, it did mean that the type of questions that one would use for it are more deliberative. It was especially good at recap questions at the start of a new lecture. 
    In my original program I did not have the ability to save Tweets. I did not think that this was necessary. It was only later discovered, in the process of writing this report, that tweets are not recoverable past a given date. I have since added the ability to save the tweets for later analysis. One of my students was so interested in the program that he has written a version that will track #tags that can be used for closed multiple choice questions.
    The downside of the program is that it is not generally usable by others as the installation process requires a high degree of programming knowledge.
    I do believe however that this method shows promise and can be built upon.  



References
Ausubel, D. P., Novak, J. D., & Hanesian, H. (1968). Educational psychology: A cognitive view.
Bloom, Benjamin S.(1956) ​Taxonomy of educational objectives. Vol. 1: Cognitive domain.New York: McKay 
Dewey, J. (1985). Democracy and education 1916. J. A. Boydston, & P. Baysinger (Eds.). Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press.
Gagné, R. M. (1985). ​ conditions of learning and theory of instruction​. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Gupta. N. (2015 April 5) Python Twitter tutorial - 5 steps to tweet a message from python script Retrieved from http://nodotcom.org/python-twitter-tutorial.html
Fontana, D. (1995). Psychology for teachers. Hampshire, UK: Macmillan.
Munroe. R (2015, April 5) Python Retrieved from https://xkcd.com/353/
Petty, G. (2006) Evidence-Based Teaching. Cheltenham: Nelson Thornes .
Petty, G. (2014). Teaching today: A practical guide. Nelson Thornes.
Poore, M. (2012). Using social media in the classroom: a best practice guide. Sage.
Rowley, S. D., & Nielsen, H. D. (1997). School and Classroom Organization in the Periphery. New York: Garland Publishing.
TK (2015, April 5). Retrieved from   http://www.tcl.tk/
Tweepy (2015, April 5). Retrieved from  http://www.tweepy.org/
Twitter (2015, April 5). Retrieved from https://mobile.twitter.com/i/guest
Twitter developer page (2015 April 5) Retrieved from https://dev.twitter.com/
